The Project
According to the recent taxi customer satisfaction survey conducted by the Land Transportation Authority of Singapore (2013), taxi commuters were surveyed a total of eight service attribute. The survey result indicated that 95.9% and 95.2% were satisfied with the safety of taxi services and taxi driver’s route knowledge respectively. Other attributes that fared well include ride comfort (94.3%); customer service provided by the driver (93.5%); taxi stand accessibility (87.8%); and service information (85.1%). However, commuters indicated waiting time (82.8%) and taxi booking (66.3%) as areas that requires further improvement.
In line with this, there are different existing systems that answered the problems in riding a taxi and most of these systems used smartphone devices to communicate with the commuter which merely a phone to phone connection only, receive and accept book request, determine the route and get necessary information from the commuter. When the smartphone device is lost, the operation of the taxi would stop. Moreover, the taxi company or operator has no capability of monitoring the activities of the taxi drivers.
This project aimed to develop a prototype that would replace the smartphone device being used by the taxi driver who uses the existing system. Furthermore, the project has its server to monitor the passenger and the taxi driver once the transaction begins in order to have security. In addition, the project is designed to create an Android application that would support the commuters to send book requests to the taxi driver.
Project Objectives
The general objective of this project is to design an automated taxi booking system that meets the client requirements in accordance with codes and engineering standards and consideration of trade-offs based on the multiple constraints such as economic, functionality and manufacturability.

Specific Objectives:
1.	To design a prototype that allows the taxi driver to receive and accept book request from commuter.
2.	To develop an Android compatible application that sends book request to the device.  
3.	To test the reliability of the device and evaluate the accuracy of the project.

The Client
For the purpose of testing and evaluating the project, the designers are looking forward to implement the project to the taxi units and drivers from Joannian Taxi Incorporated. The said transportation-taxi business is currently using two different existing systems in which a number of 90 taxi drivers used smartphone device in their taxi operation.
Having problems in using smartphone devices and gathered some undesirable feedbacks coming from the commuters who had already used the existing system to book a taxi, led the designers to develop the project.
Project Scope and Limitation
The functionality of the project is operated by both prototype of the taxi and the Android application of the end user. The uses of the prototype are to receive and accept book request from the commuter, know the commuter location upon request, determine commuter's destination from the initial location indicated, give necessary information about the taxi and the driver including the plate number of the taxi, name of the taxi driver, and the driver’s license number. The software on two devices needs to be connected in the internet to receive and transmit data to main server located on the taxi company. The entire system design covers data monitoring of both end user and taxi driver in which parameters are produced right after their transaction.
The prototype is limited only on receiving and accepting book request from the commuter and sending necessary information of the taxi back to the commuter. No other application and/or program is implemented in the prototype.
